# Percona Monitoring and Management 2.38.0

| **Release date:** | Aug 7, 2023                                                                                    |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Installation:** | [Installing Percona Monitoring and Management](https://www.percona.com/software/pmm/quickstart) |

Percona Monitoring and Management (PMM) is an open-source database monitoring, management, and observability solution for MySQL, PostgreSQL, and MongoDB.

<!---
!!! caution alert alert-warning "Important/Caution"
    Crucial points that need emphasis:

    - Important: A significant point that deserves emphasis.
    - Caution: Used to mean 'Continue with care'.
 --->

## Release Highlights

### MongoDB backups  - UI-based restore on the new replica set cluster

- Why: There may be better options than restoring a database on the same Cluster, which is already in use. This is because it means replacing your current Cluster, which can prevent you from being able to test the restore and data. Typically, it's better to back up production data and deploy it on a Dev environment for testing purposes.
- What: Users can now easily restore their replica set on any other cluster with the same configuration. Please note that this feature is only available for replica sets and not for sharded clusters. Restoring sharded clusters is a complicated process that still requires manual intervention. For more information, please refer to our documentation.

### Query Analytics - Meta information

- Why: QAN is a useful tool for filtering data and identifying problematic queries. However, it can be difficult to determine which services, nodes, and other labels are associated with the identified queries.

- What: This new feature assists the user in viewing all labels associated with the chosen query (metadata) to streamline the process of identifying and resolving issues.



## New Features

- [PMM-2852](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-2852) -   [QAN]: Starting with PMM 2.38.0, MySQL and PostgreSQL supports collection of labels from the comments placed in the SQL queries.

## Improvements

- [PMM-9367](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-9367) -   [Backups]: Added support for working with backups for sharded clusters.

## Bugs Fixed

- [PMM-11578](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-11578) - [Alerting]: The **Last notified** column under **Alerting > Fired Alerts** has been renamed to **Last triggered**. This better illustrates the fact that triggered alerts may not always generate a notification. This can happen when the contact points are not correctly configured.

- [PMM-9224](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-9224) - Data from Arbiter nodes is now correctly displayed on the **MongoDB ReplSet Summary** dashboard.


<!---


## Known issues

- ​List of known issues with a  comprehensive description and link to the JIRA ticket.

    Example:

    [PMM-XXXX](https://jira.percona.com/browse/PMM-XXXX) - Comprehensive description.


    **Solution**

    Description of the solution.


## Coming Soon

  Share what are the upcoming features on your roadmap to keep users excited:

- Planned item 1
- Planned item 2

--->
