
# Percona Monitoring and Management 2.41.0


| **Release date:** | Oct 05, 2023                                                                                    |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Installation:** | [Installing Percona Monitoring and Management](https://www.percona.com/software/pmm/quickstart) |

Percona Monitoring and Management (PMM) is an open source database monitoring, management, and observability solution for MySQL, PostgreSQL, and MongoDB.

<!---

!!! caution alert alert-warning "Important/Caution"
    Crucial points that need emphasis:

    - Important: A significant point that deserves emphasis.
    - Caution: Used to mean 'Continue with care'.

--->

## Release Highlights
### Data collection is now can survive temporary Network problems between Database and PMM server 
PMM data is essential for monitoring and troubleshooting by its users. The PMM application operates through a client-server system, exchanging data between clients (on DB servers) and servers (PMM UI interface and data storage). Previously, when network or application issues interrupted this connection, PMM could not collect complete data. However, with this latest release, such problems with the PMM Client and Server components will no longer result in data loss. Instead, data gathered during the connection problem will be delivered immediately once the connection is re-established. This new feature will allow PMM users to investigate problems that previously could not be examined, providing a clearer understanding of database or network problems.


### Simplified Reporting about Database problems to Percona
Efficient resolution of a problem often relies on a well-written report detailing the issue. 
We have added a new feature that allows both Users and Customers to gather data from PMM. This data can be shared with Percona support to help solve any issues with Customer Databases in SLA or assist our Support team in addressing community-reported bugs in Jira.
To simplify the reporting process for our customers, we created an internal tool some time ago. We later added it to the PMM server, but its execution was complex, requiring users to install additional UI or use the terminal. 
However, in this release, we have made the tool PMM Dump(https://docs.percona.com/pmm-dump-documentation/index.html) easily accessible for all PMM users through the PMM user interface. 
 
### PostgreSQL monitoring performance improvement
At our company, we prioritize the principle of "Do no Harm" and recognize that performance is a crucial aspect of our work. With this release, we have addressed a common problem for our PostgreSQL users regarding efficient resource usage by PMM. Specifically, we have decreased the number of used connections for monitoring, resulting in improved efficiency.

### DBaaS deprecation, Long live to Everest
We have achieved positive outcomes in developing our Database as a Service in PMM. As we move forward to the next level, we have decided to separate the DBaaS functionality into an independent product. Consequently, we are discontinuing the DBaaS functionality in PMM and offering migration guides to Everest[LINK].

The functionality will still be available in PMM v2, but there will be no further updates. We strongly advise users to utilize Everest for their Database deployments in K8s.







## New Features



## Improvements



## Bugs Fixed


## Known issue

