# Percona Monitoring and Management 2.44.0

| **Release date** | December 6th, 2024                                                                                     |
| -----------------| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Installation** | [Installing Percona Monitoring and Management](../quickstart/index.md) |

Percona Monitoring and Management (PMM) is an open source database monitoring, management, and observability solution for MySQL, PostgreSQL, and MongoDB.

It enables you to observe the health of your database systems, explore new patterns in their behavior, troubleshoot them, and execute database management operations regardless of whether your databases are located on-premises or in the cloud.

## Improved PostgreSQL 17 Metrics Collection

PMM 2.44.0 strengthens monitoring capabilities for PostgreSQL 17, building on the recent support for Query Analytics introduced in PMM 2.443.2. 
With this update we've revised queries tailored to PostgreSQL 17's updated schema to ensure that metrics are accurately collected and displayed in the PostgreSQL Overview dashboard.

This also means that columns like `checkpoints_timed` in the `stat_bgwriter` collector are now correctly recognized.

### [Tech Preview] Support for PSMDB  and Community MongoDB 8.0

The latest version of MongoDB, along with [Percona Server for MongoDB 8.0](https://www.percona.com/software/mongodb/percona-server-for-mongodb), brings [numerous improvements and significant performance enhancements](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/release-notes/8.0/).

With this update, we are adding support for MongoDB 8 in PMM 2, including updates to `mongodb_exporter` to accommodate the revised metrics structure (e.g., `wiredTiger.concurrentTransactions` is now `queues.execution`).

In addition, the MongoDB **Oplog Details** dashboard is also adapted to support MongoDB 8.0's new oplog metrics, with updated panels for **Oplog Buffered Operations** and **Buffer Capacity**.

This enhancement requires PMM Agent version 2.43.1 or later. Keep in mind that some dashboard metrics may need further updates to fully support MongoDB 8.0's new format.

## Fixed PBM metrics collection

Fixed a bug where Percona Backup for MongoDB (PBM) metrics were not being scraped by default and required the `--enable-all-collectors` flag. PBM metrics are now collected automatically when adding MongoDB services to PMM, without requiring additional configuration.