# Percona Monitoring and Management 3.0.0 Alpha

| **Release date** | March 30th, 2024                                                                                   |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Installation** | [Installing Percona Monitoring and Management](https://www.percona.com/software/pmm/quickstart) |

Percona Monitoring and Management (PMM) is an open source database monitoring, management, and observability solution for MySQL, PostgreSQL, and MongoDB.

It enables you to observe the health of your database systems, explore new patterns in their behavior, troubleshoot them and execute database management operations—regardless of whether your databases are located on-premises or in the cloud.

## Release highlights

### Grafana upgrade

PMM now incorporates Grafana v10.4, bringing significant enhancements to navigation, and critical vulnerability fixes. For further details, please refer to Grafana's release blog.

### More options for deploying PMM rootless

In addition to Podman, PMM Server can also now be deployed rootless with Helm, Docker, Virtual Appliance, or Amazon AWS. 

This setup prioritizes security by eliminating the need for root privileges to create, run, and manage containers. Running containers as a non-root user means that you never have to give a user root permission on the host. This adds an extra security layer, crucial in safeguarding against potential security breaches.

For detailed instructions on deploying rootless PMM, check the [Setting up PMM Server](https://docs.percona.com/percona-monitoring-and-management/setting-up/index.html#set-up-pmm-server) topic.

## Enhanced PMM deployment on AMI and OVF environments

PMM is now deployed inside containers within AMI and OVF instances. These containers operate in a rootless mode and are managed via Podman. Compared to traditional Docker deployments, this approach significantly increases security for a more robust and secure monitoring for your environments.

With RHEL Linux 9 shipping with Podman by default, this means that you benefit from enhanced security features out of the box.

This advancement reflects our ongoing commitment to providing
Now running PMM in baseline operating system on AMI and OVF (Oracle Linux 9.2) , We are now running PMM inside container in AMI and OVF and the contaierbs are rootless and running via 


## Improvements

[PMM-10974](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PMM-10974) - 

## Fixed issues

[PMM-12806](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PMM-12806) - 


## API changes